Welcome to the next section of this course.
So this is a section where we start right in our first live project, and it's going to be an end to
end test using topics we have learned so far.
So two steps ahead are that we're going to create a framework using much of what we have learned up
to this point.
Began to create a new Maven project.
Began to test various pages from the test store.
Began to make use of the page object model.
We can't use a base class to store reusable methods.
Began to use a properties file to store global variables.
And we're going to use a test inject small file to control what tests we want to run.
So what is our learning objectives?
So by participating in this live project, it will help you join the dots by helping you understand
how everything so far fits together.
We all build in a framework which consists of a number of different technologies.
This project will be similar to how you test a web application in the real world.
Practice also helps you retain information.
So our requirements are to understand what we are trying to test.
We can do this by going through a user journey using the browser.
This will inform us what pages and actions are required.
Once we understand this wood and know what our test is going to do and what page object classes we need
to create.
So what is the plan ahead?
We are going to create page object classes, one page at a time.
We are going to assess what elements exist and what we may want to interact with.
We will then form an object class for a specific page.
We are going to create eight object classes for each page involved to place an order on the test store.
And this will be known as Test one.
We would and we use some page objects to test, addin and the removal of a product from the test or
basket.
And this will be known as test to.
So let's walk through test one.
And I'm going to call this test or the complete test.
So the first thing I'm going to do is go to the automation testing website and from this home page I'm
going to click the test or link.
This will take me to the test or home page and I'm going to select a product.
That product is going to be the Hummingbird printed T-shirt, and I'm going to add one item to my cart.
This wouldn't open up the shopping cart panel.
And as you can see, that one item is added.
So I'm going to proceed to checkout.
You will see a summary of my cards items and I'm going to use a 20 off code where I expect 20% to be
deducted from the total price and then going to proceed to checkout.
And I'm going to start entering the dummy customer information.
And then again to move on to the address section where I'm going to add a dummy address.
I'm then going to select a ship method and I'm going to add a comment to that shipping method, and
then I'm going to proceed to payment where the store has been configured to only allow pay by check.
So I am going to select that method and then I'm going to agree to the terms of service before click
in the order with an obligation to pay.
Once I select a button, it should then show that my order is confirmed.
So that is test one.
And remember, this is a test store.
So all the data is dummy.
So there's not actually any ordering or payments taking place.
So for test two, I'm going to call this add remove item basket test.
So again, I'm going to go to the automation website and click on the test or link.
This again will take me to the test or home page where I'm going to select my first product, which
again is the Hummingbird Printed T-shirt.
I'm going to add to these t shirts by increasing the quantity to two before adding it to my cart.
You should see two of these T-shirts that added on the shopping cart panel.
I'm then going to click Continue Shopping, which will take me back to the test or home page.
So the next product that I'm going to select is the hummingbird printed sweater.
So I'm going to add one of these items to my cart.
And again, the shopping cart panel is open.
And you should see that there was a total of 73, 96, and that's because there's free items now in
carts.
If I click Proceed to checkout, you'll see all the items listed and quantity users see a total price
of 7396.
On then going to make a slight change.
And what I'm going to do is remove the sweater from my basket.
This will leave only two of the hummingbird printed T-shirts and the total with taxes and shipping should
be 4524.
So I'm going to check to see if the total amount after products has been deleted equals expected amount
of 4524 by using an assertion.
So that will be my second test.
So I hope this has made it clear what will be covered.
So let's begin with the first live project.